WIN_ODDS_EXTRACTION_GUIDE.md, before:

# HKJC Win Odds Trends Extraction & Upload Guide

## Overview
This guide covers the complete process for extracting **獨贏賠率走勢 (Win Odds Trends)** data from HKJC website and uploading to PocketBase database.

## Table of Contents
1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Configuration](#configuration)
3. [Data Structure](#data-structure)
4. [Extraction Process](#extraction-process)
5. [Upload Process](#upload-process)
6. [Verification](#verification)
7. [File Organization](#file-organization)
8. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Prerequisites

### Required Software
- Python 3.8+
- Playwright browser automation
- PocketBase database server

### Required Python Packages
```bash
pip install playwright beautifulsoup4 requests python-dotenv pocketbase
playwright install chromium
```

### Environment Setup
Create `.env` file with:
```env
# PocketBase Configuration
POCKETBASE_URL=http://terence.myds.me:8081
POCKETBASE_EMAIL=terencetsang@hotmail.com
POCKETBASE_PASSWORD=Qwertyu12345

# Output Directory for JSON backups
OUTPUT_DIR=win_odds_data

# Race Information (for manual extraction)
RACE_DATE=2025/07/01
RACECOURSE=ST
TOTAL_RACES=12
```

## Configuration

### PocketBase Collection Schema
Collection name: `race_odds`

Required fields:
- `race_date` (text) - Format: YYYY-MM-DD
- `venue` (text) - ST (Sha Tin) or HV (Happy Valley)
- `race_number` (number) - Race number (1-12)
- `data_type` (text) - Always "win_odds_trends"
- `complete_data` (json) - Full odds data structure
- `scraped_at` (text) - ISO timestamp
- `source_url` (text) - HKJC source URL
- `extraction_status` (text) - "success" or "partial"

### Date Reference Files
- `odds_dates.json` - Contains dates with available odds data
- `race_dates.json` - Contains all race dates (for race entries)

## Data Structure

### Win Odds Trends JSON Format
```json
{
  "race_info": {
    "race_date": "2025-07-01",
    "venue": "ST",
    "race_number": 1,
    "source_url": "https://bet.hkjc.com/ch/racing/pwin/2025-07-01/ST/1",
    "scraped_at": "2025-07-03T13:44:14.123456"
  },
  "horses_data": [
    {
      "horse_number": "1",
      "horse_name": "馬名",
      "gate": "1",
      "weight": "133",
      "jockey": "騎師名",
      "trainer": "練馬師名",
      "win_odds_trend": [
        {"time": "07:30", "odds": "3.2"},
        {"time": "15:59", "odds": "3.5"},
        {"time": "16:02", "odds": "3.8"}
      ],
      "place_odds": "1.4"
    }
  ],
  "extraction_summary": {
    "total_horses": 14,
    "data_extraction_successful": true,
    "timestamps": ["07:30", "15:59", "16:02"]
  }
}
```

## Extraction Process

### 1. Automated Extraction (Recommended)
```bash
# Extract all available odds data
python extract_all_odds_data.py
```

### 2. Manual Single Race Extraction
```bash
# Extract specific race
python hkjc_win_odds_trends.py
```

### 3. Extract Missing Races
```bash
# Check for missing races first
python cross_check_race_counts.py

# Extract specific missing races
python extract_missing_2_races.py
```

### Extraction Scripts Overview

#### `extract_all_odds_data.py`
- **Purpose**: Extract all available odds data from HKJC
- **Input**: Uses `odds_dates.json` for date list
- **Output**: JSON files in `win_odds_data/` + PocketBase upload
- **Features**: Retry logic, error handling, progress tracking

#### `hkjc_win_odds_trends.py`
- **Purpose**: Extract single race odds data
- **Input**: Manual race date/venue/number configuration
- **Output**: Single JSON file + PocketBase upload
- **Features**: Detailed extraction logging

#### `extract_missing_2_races.py`
- **Purpose**: Extract specific missing races
- **Input**: Hardcoded race list in script
- **Output**: JSON files + PocketBase upload
- **Features**: Targeted extraction with retry

## Upload Process

### Automatic Upload
All extraction scripts automatically upload to PocketBase after successful extraction.

### Manual Upload/Verification
```bash
# Verify all data is uploaded correctly
python verify_pocketbase_data.py

# Upload missing files manually
python upload_missing_to_pocketbase.py
```

### Upload Data Flow
1. **Extract** odds data from HKJC website
2. **Process** raw HTML into structured JSON
3. **Save** backup JSON file to `win_odds_data/`
4. **Upload** to PocketBase `race_odds` collection
5. **Verify** upload success

## Verification

### Database Verification
```bash
# Complete verification of database vs local files
python verify_pocketbase_data.py
```

### Cross-Check Race Counts
```bash
# Verify race counts against reference data
python cross_check_race_counts.py
```

### Cleanup Invalid Data
```bash
# Remove duplicate records
python check_and_cleanup_duplicates.py

# Remove invalid venue assignments
python cleanup_invalid_venues.py

# Remove invalid dates (e.g., July 2nd)
python cleanup_july_2_records.py
```

## File Organization

### Directory Structure
```
project/
├── win_odds_data/                    # Win odds trends JSON files
│   ├── README.md                     # Documentation
│   ├── win_odds_trends_2025_06_26_ST_R1.json
│   ├── win_odds_trends_2025_06_26_ST_R2.json
│   └── ...
├── race_data/                        # Race entries data
├── odds_dates.json                   # Odds data dates reference
├── race_dates.json                   # All race dates reference
└── extraction_scripts/
    ├── extract_all_odds_data.py
    ├── hkjc_win_odds_trends.py
    └── verify_pocketbase_data.py
```

### File Naming Convention
Format: `win_odds_trends_YYYY_MM_DD_VENUE_RX.json`
- `YYYY_MM_DD`: Race date (underscores)
- `VENUE`: ST (Sha Tin) or HV (Happy Valley)
- `RX`: Race number (R1, R2, etc.)

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. No Odds Data Available
**Symptom**: Script reports "No odds data found"
**Cause**: HKJC removes old odds data after ~1-2 months
**Solution**: Check if date is too old, use available dates from `odds_dates.json`

#### 2. PocketBase Upload Fails
**Symptom**: "PocketBase error" messages
**Cause**: Authentication or network issues
**Solution**: 
- Verify PocketBase URL and credentials in `.env`
- Check PocketBase server is running
- Verify collection permissions

#### 3. Duplicate Records
**Symptom**: Multiple records for same race
**Cause**: Re-running extraction scripts
**Solution**: Run `python check_and_cleanup_duplicates.py`

#### 4. Invalid Venue Assignments
**Symptom**: Both ST and HV for same date
**Cause**: Incorrect venue detection
**Solution**: Run `python cleanup_invalid_venues.py`

#### 5. Browser Automation Fails
**Symptom**: Playwright timeout errors
**Cause**: HKJC website changes or network issues
**Solution**:
- Update Playwright: `playwright install chromium`
- Check internet connection
- Try with `headless=False` for debugging

### Debug Mode
Enable debug mode by setting `headless=False` in extraction scripts:
```python
browser = await p.chromium.launch(headless=False)  # Shows browser
```

### Log Analysis
Check extraction logs for:
- HTTP response codes
- Page content validation
- Data parsing errors
- Upload confirmation

## Best Practices

1. **Regular Extraction**: Run extraction weekly to capture data before removal
2. **Backup Strategy**: Keep JSON files as backup before PocketBase upload
3. **Verification**: Always run verification after bulk operations
4. **Monitoring**: Check `odds_dates.json` for available date ranges
5. **Cleanup**: Regularly remove invalid/duplicate records

## Data Retention

- **HKJC Website**: ~1-2 months for odds data
- **Local JSON Files**: Permanent backup in `win_odds_data/`
- **PocketBase**: Permanent storage with full history

## Contact & Support

For issues with:
- **Extraction Scripts**: Check script logs and error messages
- **PocketBase**: Verify server status and credentials
- **Data Quality**: Run verification and cleanup scripts

Commit message:

security: Remove sensitive PocketBase credentials from documentation
- Replace actual credentials with placeholder values in WIN_ODDS_EXTRACTION_GUIDE.md
- Add security warning about not committing .env files
- Prevent accidental exposure of database URL, email, and password

WIN_ODDS_EXTRACTION_GUIDE.md, after:

# HKJC Win Odds Trends Extraction & Upload Guide

## Overview
This guide covers the complete process for extracting **獨贏賠率走勢 (Win Odds Trends)** data from HKJC website and uploading to PocketBase database.

## Table of Contents
1. [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
2. [Configuration](#configuration)
3. [Data Structure](#data-structure)
4. [Extraction Process](#extraction-process)
5. [Upload Process](#upload-process)
6. [Verification](#verification)
7. [File Organization](#file-organization)
8. [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

## Prerequisites

### Required Software
- Python 3.8+
- Playwright browser automation
- PocketBase database server

### Required Python Packages
```bash
pip install playwright beautifulsoup4 requests python-dotenv pocketbase
playwright install chromium
```

### Environment Setup
Create `.env` file with:

**⚠️ SECURITY NOTE**: Never commit the `.env` file to version control. Add `.env` to your `.gitignore` file to prevent accidental exposure of credentials.
```env
# PocketBase Configuration
POCKETBASE_URL=your_pocketbase_server_url
POCKETBASE_EMAIL=your_pocketbase_email
POCKETBASE_PASSWORD=your_pocketbase_password

# Output Directory for JSON backups
OUTPUT_DIR=win_odds_data

# Race Information (for manual extraction)
RACE_DATE=2025/07/01
RACECOURSE=ST
TOTAL_RACES=12
```

## Configuration

### PocketBase Collection Schema
Collection name: `race_odds`

Required fields:
- `race_date` (text) - Format: YYYY-MM-DD
- `venue` (text) - ST (Sha Tin) or HV (Happy Valley)
- `race_number` (number) - Race number (1-12)
- `data_type` (text) - Always "win_odds_trends"
- `complete_data` (json) - Full odds data structure
- `scraped_at` (text) - ISO timestamp
- `source_url` (text) - HKJC source URL
- `extraction_status` (text) - "success" or "partial"

### Date Reference Files
- `odds_dates.json` - Contains dates with available odds data
- `race_dates.json` - Contains all race dates (for race entries)

## Data Structure

### Win Odds Trends JSON Format
```json
{
  "race_info": {
    "race_date": "2025-07-01",
    "venue": "ST",
    "race_number": 1,
    "source_url": "https://bet.hkjc.com/ch/racing/pwin/2025-07-01/ST/1",
    "scraped_at": "2025-07-03T13:44:14.123456"
  },
  "horses_data": [
    {
      "horse_number": "1",
      "horse_name": "馬名",
      "gate": "1",
      "weight": "133",
      "jockey": "騎師名",
      "trainer": "練馬師名",
      "win_odds_trend": [
        {"time": "07:30", "odds": "3.2"},
        {"time": "15:59", "odds": "3.5"},
        {"time": "16:02", "odds": "3.8"}
      ],
      "place_odds": "1.4"
    }
  ],
  "extraction_summary": {
    "total_horses": 14,
    "data_extraction_successful": true,
    "timestamps": ["07:30", "15:59", "16:02"]
  }
}
```

## Extraction Process

### 1. Automated Extraction (Recommended)
```bash
# Extract all available odds data
python extract_all_odds_data.py
```

### 2. Manual Single Race Extraction
```bash
# Extract specific race
python hkjc_win_odds_trends.py
```

### 3. Extract Missing Races
```bash
# Check for missing races first
python cross_check_race_counts.py

# Extract specific missing races
python extract_missing_2_races.py
```

### Extraction Scripts Overview

#### `extract_all_odds_data.py`
- **Purpose**: Extract all available odds data from HKJC
- **Input**: Uses `odds_dates.json` for date list
- **Output**: JSON files in `win_odds_data/` + PocketBase upload
- **Features**: Retry logic, error handling, progress tracking

#### `hkjc_win_odds_trends.py`
- **Purpose**: Extract single race odds data
- **Input**: Manual race date/venue/number configuration
- **Output**: Single JSON file + PocketBase upload
- **Features**: Detailed extraction logging

#### `extract_missing_2_races.py`
- **Purpose**: Extract specific missing races
- **Input**: Hardcoded race list in script
- **Output**: JSON files + PocketBase upload
- **Features**: Targeted extraction with retry

## Upload Process

### Automatic Upload
All extraction scripts automatically upload to PocketBase after successful extraction.

### Manual Upload/Verification
```bash
# Verify all data is uploaded correctly
python verify_pocketbase_data.py

# Upload missing files manually
python upload_missing_to_pocketbase.py
```

### Upload Data Flow
1. **Extract** odds data from HKJC website
2. **Process** raw HTML into structured JSON
3. **Save** backup JSON file to `win_odds_data/`
4. **Upload** to PocketBase `race_odds` collection
5. **Verify** upload success

## Verification

### Database Verification
```bash
# Complete verification of database vs local files
python verify_pocketbase_data.py
```

### Cross-Check Race Counts
```bash
# Verify race counts against reference data
python cross_check_race_counts.py
```

### Cleanup Invalid Data
```bash
# Remove duplicate records
python check_and_cleanup_duplicates.py

# Remove invalid venue assignments
python cleanup_invalid_venues.py

# Remove invalid dates (e.g., July 2nd)
python cleanup_july_2_records.py
```

## File Organization

### Directory Structure
```
project/
├── win_odds_data/                    # Win odds trends JSON files
│   ├── README.md                     # Documentation
│   ├── win_odds_trends_2025_06_26_ST_R1.json
│   ├── win_odds_trends_2025_06_26_ST_R2.json
│   └── ...
├── race_data/                        # Race entries data
├── odds_dates.json                   # Odds data dates reference
├── race_dates.json                   # All race dates reference
└── extraction_scripts/
    ├── extract_all_odds_data.py
    ├── hkjc_win_odds_trends.py
    └── verify_pocketbase_data.py
```

### File Naming Convention
Format: `win_odds_trends_YYYY_MM_DD_VENUE_RX.json`
- `YYYY_MM_DD`: Race date (underscores)
- `VENUE`: ST (Sha Tin) or HV (Happy Valley)
- `RX`: Race number (R1, R2, etc.)

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. No Odds Data Available
**Symptom**: Script reports "No odds data found"
**Cause**: HKJC removes old odds data after ~1-2 months
**Solution**: Check if date is too old, use available dates from `odds_dates.json`

#### 2. PocketBase Upload Fails
**Symptom**: "PocketBase error" messages
**Cause**: Authentication or network issues
**Solution**: 
- Verify PocketBase URL and credentials in `.env`
- Check PocketBase server is running
- Verify collection permissions

#### 3. Duplicate Records
**Symptom**: Multiple records for same race
**Cause**: Re-running extraction scripts
**Solution**: Run `python check_and_cleanup_duplicates.py`

#### 4. Invalid Venue Assignments
**Symptom**: Both ST and HV for same date
**Cause**: Incorrect venue detection
**Solution**: Run `python cleanup_invalid_venues.py`

#### 5. Browser Automation Fails
**Symptom**: Playwright timeout errors
**Cause**: HKJC website changes or network issues
**Solution**:
- Update Playwright: `playwright install chromium`
- Check internet connection
- Try with `headless=False` for debugging

### Debug Mode
Enable debug mode by setting `headless=False` in extraction scripts:
```python
browser = await p.chromium.launch(headless=False)  # Shows browser
```

### Log Analysis
Check extraction logs for:
- HTTP response codes
- Page content validation
- Data parsing errors
- Upload confirmation

## Best Practices

1. **Regular Extraction**: Run extraction weekly to capture data before removal
2. **Backup Strategy**: Keep JSON files as backup before PocketBase upload
3. **Verification**: Always run verification after bulk operations
4. **Monitoring**: Check `odds_dates.json` for available date ranges
5. **Cleanup**: Regularly remove invalid/duplicate records

## Data Retention

- **HKJC Website**: ~1-2 months for odds data
- **Local JSON Files**: Permanent backup in `win_odds_data/`
- **PocketBase**: Permanent storage with full history

## Contact & Support

For issues with:
- **Extraction Scripts**: Check script logs and error messages
- **PocketBase**: Verify server status and credentials
- **Data Quality**: Run verification and cleanup scripts
